# Sorting-Algorithm-Benchmark-Project-CS-2003-
The purpose of this project is to test all five sorting algorithms in Java by analyzing each algorithm’s algorithmic efficiency. This project capitalizes on the sorting algorithms such as quick sort that I learned in class, and it combines this knowledge with the quantitative methods and skills required to analyze algorithmic efficiency such as Big O notation. After implementing the entire coding for each algorithm, I must implement a process that benchmarks each algorithm to get a better picture of algorithmic efficiency that I can use to create a graph that uses data to illustrate each algorithm’s performance. There are two methods to benchmark each sorting algorithm: significant operation calculation and summation and using the Java Microbenchmarking Harness (JMH). Calculating each algorithm’s significant operation allows the programmer to measure the efficiency and performance for each algorithm’s critical operations; in contrast, the Java Microbenchmarking Harness adapts to Java’s time usage, whether it involves garbage collection or other object-oriented duties, to ensure consistent results for each algorithm’s benchmark.

The Word Document "CS-2003 Project 1 Report" contains how I implemented the logic behind each sorting algorithm (Bubble, Insertion, Merge, Quick, Radix) along with how I measured each algorithm's number of critical operations performed and their elapsed time measured by the Java Microbenchmarking Harness (JMH). The Excel file "Algorithm Benchmark Data" contains the most accurate data gathered to measure each algorithm's benchmark performance along with the graphs created based on the data plotted. The "Main.java" file contains the main source code I worked on throughout this project as it contains the coding behind each sorting algorithm and the code for the benchmarking methods that measure significant operations and utilize the JMH. This project was completed for my TU class "CS 2003: Fundamentals of Algorithms".
